AI that works with your OS - Raycast AI Store Pro AI iOS Windows Teams Enterprise Blog Pricing Log in Download Log in AI that works with your OS Raycast AI combines leading models with powerful extensions - right on your OS Download AI Chat Meet your new virtual assistant Stuck while coding? Need help planning your day? Chat with 32+ different models in one familiar interface. Search Chats… Pinned Project Assistant TypeScript Expert Cars Expert Today San Francisco's Top Rated Restaurants Based on recent reviews and ratings, here are San Francisco's top restaurants: • Zuni Cafe remains a San Francisco classic, known for its legendary roasted chicken • Rich Table stands out for exceptional California cuisine and is considered a perfect San Francisco restaurant • Aphotic has earned Michelin stars for its innovative seafood offerings • Other top spots include State Bird Provisions, The Progress, Outerlands, and House of Prime Rib Are ice baths beneficial for recovery? Research shows mixed benefits of ice baths for recovery. While cold water immersion can reduce muscle soreness by up to 20% and accelerate fatigue recovery, some studies suggest it may hinder certain exercise adaptation benefits. The practice is most effective when done immediately after exercise, with recommended immersion times of 5-10 minutes Understanding LLMs Large Language Models (LLMs) work by processing vast amounts of text data through neural networks to recognize patterns and generate responses. They use deep learning to analyze language patterns and context, enabling them to understand and generate human-like text. The models are trained on massive datasets, allowing them to predict the most likely next words in a sequence based on statistical analysis and pattern recognition. Yesterday Things to do in London London is a city with a rich history and culture. Here are some things to do in London: • Visit the Tower of London • Explore the British Museum • Take a walk in Hyde Park • Visit the Tower of London • Explore the British Museum • Take a walk in Hyde Park Are ice baths beneficial for recovery? Research shows mixed benefits of ice baths for recovery. While cold water immersion can reduce muscle soreness by up to 20% and accelerate fatigue recovery, some studies suggest it may hinder certain exercise adaptation benefits. The practice is most effective when done immediately after exercise, with recommended immersion times of 5-10 minutes Understanding LLMs Large Language Models (LLMs) work by processing vast amounts of text data through neural networks to recognize patterns and generate responses. They use deep learning to analyze language patterns and context, enabling them to understand and generate human-like text. The models are trained on massive datasets, allowing them to predict the most likely next words in a sequence based on statistical analysis and pattern recognition. Project Assistant Please give me an overview of my day Filter Issues Get Calendar Events Here's an overview of your day: Calendar You have two events today: 1:1 with Pedro at 12.30 for 30 minutes Tennis Practice at 18:00 for 1 hour Linear Issues You currently have several issues in progress: Update design system typography scales Develop accessible tooltip system Fix Safari CSS glitches Your main focus is on building the design system, with some ongoing fixes for browser bugs and accessibility. Ask AI anything… Ray-1 Submit Actions ⌘K Model Ray-1 System Instructions Pass additional instructions to the Al, for example to change the tone or format output AI Extensions Add Add Extensions Linear Calendar New Chat with Preset Last Used GPT-4o OpenAI All Presets TypeScript Expert Claude 3.5 Swift Assistant DeepSeek R1 Cars Expert Ray-1 Market Research Gemini 1.5 Pro The top models in one place See supported models Fine-tuned chat presets Create customized chat presets tailored to your tasks with the large language model of choice. Explore Presets Compare models Regenerate answers with another model mid-chat to always find the best response. Hassle-Free Attachments Chat with PDF documents, CSV files or anything you see on your screen. The Mac app integrates with your OS to easily bring in the right context at the right time. “ Raycast is incrementally turning my Mac into an AI-native operating system and I’m so here for it. ” Guillermo Rauch CEO, Vercel Quick AI Ask anything, anytime, anywhere Quick AI combines the power of AI with the web to answer any question in a light and unobtrusive interface samuel - vim ~/Code/feature-badge.tsx import styles from "./feature-badge.module.css"; export default function FeatureBadge({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) { return <div className={styles.badge}>{children}</div>; } ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Instant access to AI Quick AI lives a single hotkey away - ready to quickly appear as a floating window above your other apps. Search the web Get up-to-date information with inline references by enabling web search . AI Extensions Interact Naturally AI Extensions turn your everyday language into actions and answers - from renaming files to checking Linear tickets. Ask AI Anything… Start with built-in AI Extensions to control your OS and Raycast's core features. Go further by connecting your favorite apps through the open source Extension Store. calendar block my day from 4pm Add to Raycast web get the raycast logo Add to Raycast finder move all pdfs on my desktop to the trash Add to Raycast weather in tokyo Add to Raycast raycast-notes add 'buy milk' to my grocery list Add to Raycast stable_diffusion make an image of a cat eating a pizza Add to Raycast start a raycast-focus session for 30 minutes blocking Slack Add to Raycast calendar block my day from 4pm Add to Raycast web get the raycast logo Add to Raycast finder move all pdfs on my desktop to the trash Add to Raycast weather in tokyo Add to Raycast raycast-notes add 'buy milk' to my grocery list Add to Raycast stable_diffusion make an image of a cat eating a pizza Add to Raycast start a raycast-focus session for 30 minutes blocking Slack Add to Raycast linear what are my current high priority issues? Add to Raycast slack set my status to 'lunch' for 1h Add to Raycast apple-notes what's on my grocery list? Add to Raycast arc open wikipedia in space 'Work' Add to Raycast things what are my todos for today? Add to Raycast jira what are my issues? Add to Raycast zoom start an instant meeting Add to Raycast messages politely decline Emily's invitation Add to Raycast linear what are my current high priority issues? Add to Raycast slack set my status to 'lunch' for 1h Add to Raycast apple-notes what's on my grocery list? Add to Raycast arc open wikipedia in space 'Work' Add to Raycast things what are my todos for today? Add to Raycast jira what are my issues? Add to Raycast zoom start an instant meeting Add to Raycast messages politely decline Emily's invitation Add to Raycast linear add my high prio tasks to my todoist inbox Add to Raycast start a raycast-focus session for 30 minutes and set my slack status to 'focusing' Add to Raycast finder sips convert my last download to png Add to Raycast homeassistant set the bedroom light to a romantic color and brightness Add to Raycast create calendar events from todays things todos Add to Raycast media-converter convert my last finder downloads video to mp4 Add to Raycast coffee keep my mac awake and linak-desk-controller move my desk to standing Add to Raycast linear add my high prio tasks to my todoist inbox Add to Raycast start a raycast-focus session for 30 minutes and set my slack status to 'focusing' Add to Raycast finder sips convert my last download to png Add to Raycast homeassistant set the bedroom light to a romantic color and brightness Add to Raycast create calendar events from todays things todos Add to Raycast media-converter convert my last finder downloads video to mp4 Add to Raycast coffee keep my mac awake and linak-desk-controller move my desk to standing Add to Raycast TIP Combine multiple AI Extensions to create advanced workflows Find an AI Extension... Explore the community of third party Extensions in the Raycast Store. Explore AI Extensions ...or build your own Create your own AI Extension to support your own use case, and optionally publish it to the Store for everyone to use. Explore Docs AI Commands Your automation assistant Automate repetitive tasks and eliminate chores by creating AI Commands that can be invoked with a single hotkey. Choose from 30+ built-in commands or create your own tailored to your specific flows. “ Having AI integrated in the OS is the future that Raycast enables today. ” Koen Bok Founder, Framer Explore AI Commands Improve your spelling and grammar Clean up gramattical mistakes, speling errors and typos. Ask follow-up… Fix Spelling and Grammar Clean up grammatical mistakes, spelling errors and typos. GPT-4o mini Explain Code Break down how complex code works. Ask follow-up… Explain Code Step by Step Code Overview The code defines a set of TypeScript types and functions for managing user sessions, organizations, subscriptions, and extensions in a web application, likely related to a SaaS platform. It utilizes the Fetch API for making HTTP requests to a backend service. Step-by-Step Explanation 1. Imports: ▪ Imports PaymentIntent from Stripe's JavaScript library and type definitions from the stripe package. 2. Type Definitions: Defines a PaymentIntent type using the Payment Intent interface from the stripe package. Claude 3.5 Haiku Summarize webpages TL;DR? Quickly find out what an article or page is about. Ask follow-up… Summarise webpage Raycast: Your Ultimate Productivity Launcher for Mac Raycast is a powerful, keyboard-driven productivity tool that transforms how users interact with their Mac, offering an extensible launcher with AI capabilities and quick access to tools. Claude 3.5 Haiku Change your tone of writing Hey boss, I’m stuck with the project brief and need help. Ask follow-up… Change Tone to Professional Dear [Boss's Name], I am finding the project brief a challenge and would appreciate your assistance. Claude 3.5 Haiku Get inspired by a large library of commands created by the community in Prompt Explorer. Explore AI Commands AI Models One Interface. Dozens of models. Choose a faster model when speed matters and a smarter one for more complex tasks. OpenAI Mistral Perplexity Meta Anthropic DeepSeek Google xAI Alibaba Moonshot AI Qwen Z.ai model GPT-5 mini GPT-5 nano GPT-4.1 * GPT-4.1 mini GPT-4.1 nano GPT-4 * GPT-4 Turbo * GPT-4o * GPT-4o mini GPT-5 Reasoning * GPT-5.1 * GPT-5.1 Reasoning * GPT-5.2 * GPT-5.2 Reasoning * GPT-5.2 Instant * GPT-5.3 Instant * GPT-5.3 Codex * GPT-5.4 * GPT-5.4 Reasoning * GPT-5.4 mini GPT-5.4 nano GPT-5.5 * GPT-5.5 Instant * GPT-5.6 Sol * GPT-5.6 Terra * GPT-5.6 Luna o4-mini o1 * o3-mini GPT-OSS 20b (Groq) GPT-OSS 120b (Groq) Claude Haiku 4.5 Claude Haiku 4.5 Reasoning Claude Sonnet 4.6 * Claude Sonnet 4.6 Reasoning * Claude Sonnet 5 * Claude Opus 4.7 * Claude Opus 4.8 * Claude Opus 5 * Sonar Sonar Pro * Sonar Reasoning Pro Llama 3.3 70B (Groq) Llama 3.1 8B (Groq) Mistral Nemo Mistral Large * Mistral Medium * Mistral Small Codestral Qwen3-32B (Groq) Gemini 3.6 Flash Gemini 3.5 Flash Gemini 3.5 Flash Lite Gemini 3.1 Flash Lite Gemini 3 Flash Gemini 3.1 Pro * Gemini 2.5 Pro * Gemini 2.5 Flash Gemini 2.5 Flash Lite Grok-4.5 Grok-4.3 Kimi K2.7 Code (Baseten) GLM-5.2 (Baseten) DeepSeek V4 Pro (Baseten) Kimi K3 (Vercel) Gemma 4 31B (Vercel) Inkling (Vercel) DeepSeek V4 Flash (Vercel) Qwen3.8 Max (Vercel) speed intelligence context GPT-5 mini 400k GPT-5 nano 400k GPT-4.1 * 1M GPT-4.1 mini 1M GPT-4.1 nano 1M GPT-4 * 8k GPT-4 Turbo * 127k GPT-4o * 127k GPT-4o mini 127k GPT-5 Reasoning * 400k GPT-5.1 * 400k GPT-5.1 Reasoning * 400k GPT-5.2 * 400k GPT-5.2 Reasoning * 400k GPT-5.2 Instant * 400k GPT-5.3 Instant * 400k GPT-5.3 Codex * 400k GPT-5.4 * 200k GPT-5.4 Reasoning * 200k GPT-5.4 mini 200k GPT-5.4 nano 200k GPT-5.5 * 200k GPT-5.5 Instant * 200k GPT-5.6 Sol * 200k GPT-5.6 Terra * 200k GPT-5.6 Luna 200k o4-mini 200k o1 * 200k o3-mini 200k GPT-OSS 20b (Groq) 131k GPT-OSS 120b (Groq) 131k *requires Advanced AI add-on Privacy Your data is yours Raycast AI is designed with privacy in mind, ensuring your details remain safe. Local first All your data is stored locally on your computer. If you enable Cloud Sync, AI Chats are saved on our servers, encrypted at rest and in transit, so they can be accessed from any of your devices. No model training Our agreements with AI providers prohibit them from using any AI interactions to train their models. Local models For complete privacy - use a local model through our integration with Ollama Private AI Extensions Share custom AI Extensions privately within your team so everyone can stay productive. Learn more about Raycast AI Privacy & Security Want enterprise features? Contact us FAQs You’ve got questions. We’ve got answers What is Raycast AI? Raycast AI provides access to multiple LLMs from state-of-the-art providers, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Perplexity, and more. AI where it’s most useful - on your OS. What is free and paid in Raycast AI? We provide a limited number of free messages to any Raycast user to give AI a try. These free messages can be used to access all the AI features we have to offer. To continue using Raycast AI, you can upgrade to a Pro plan. The Pro plan comes with an additional 14 day free trial to try all the additional features it offers. The Advanced AI models are only available as an add-on to the paid Pro plan and are not available during the trial. Can I use my own OpenAI API key? Yes, you can BYOK (Bring Your Own Key) - we currently support custom keys for OpenAI, Anthropic and Google. Which model do you use for Raycast AI? Raycast Al provides access to multiple LLMs from state-of-the-art providers, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Perplexity, and more. More advanced models are available as an add-on. Find out more on the Pricing page. Can I upgrade my Team plan to use Advanced AI? Yes! A Team Manager can add the Advanced AI add-on by going to their account settings. Just keep in mind that this will activate the add-on for all the members of your team. Does Raycast have a Student Program? Yes, Raycast offers a Pro plan 50% discount to verified students. You can apply for it by completing this form . Please note that the student discount only applies to the Raycast Pro plan, and not the Advanced AI add-on. Product Store Pro Teams Pricing Changelog Browser Extension Developers iOS Windows Raycast 2.0 API Docs Manual Troubleshooting Raycast vs Alfred FAQ Core Features Raycast AI Raycast Notes Raycast Focus Clipboard History Window Management Snippets File Search Quicklinks Calculator Calendar System Emoji Picker Top Extensions Design Tools Developer Tools Pomodoro Timer Productivity Project Management Time Management Transcript Translation Work From Home AI Company Manifesto Customers Careers Terms of Service Privacy Policy Acceptable Use Policy DPA Trust Center Press Kit Contact Community Community Stories Ambassadors Slack X/Twitter GitHub Dribbble By Raycast Glaze Explore Snippets Explore Quicklinks Prompts Chat Presets ray.so Icon Maker Merch Wallpapers Subscribe to our newsletter. Get product updates and news in your inbox. No spam. By submitting your email address, you agree to receive Raycast’s monthly newsletter. For more information, please read our privacy policy . You can always withdraw your consent.