Introduction | Raycast API Introduction Basics Getting Started Create Your First Extension Contribute to an Extension Prepare an Extension for Store Publish an Extension Debug an Extension Install an Extension Review an Extension in a Pull Request AI Getting Started Create an AI Extension Learn Core Concepts of AI Extensions Write Evals for Your AI Extension Follow Best Practices for AI Extensions Teams Getting Started Publish a Private Extension Collaborate on Private Extensions Examples Doppler Share Secrets Hacker News Todo List Spotify Controls Information Terminology File Structure Manifest Lifecycle Best Practices Developer Tools Security Versioning API Reference AI Browser Extension Cache Command Clipboard Environment Feedback Keyboard Menu Bar Commands OAuth Preferences Storage System Utilities User Interface Raycast Window & Search Bar Tool Window Management Utilities Getting Started Functions Icons OAuth Utils React hooks Misc Changelog Migration FAQ Powered by GitBook On this page For the complete documentation index, see llms.txt . This page is also available as Markdown . Welcome, developers! Our docs cover guides, examples, references, and more to help you build extensions and share them with our community and your team . The Raycast Platform consists of two parts: API: This allows developers to build rich extensions with React, Node.js, and TypeScript. The docs explain how to use the API to build top-notch experiences. Store: This lets developers share their extensions with all Raycast users. You'll learn how to publish your extension . Key features Here are a few points that make our ecosystem special: Powerful and familiar tooling: Extensions are built with TypeScript, React, and Node. Leverage npm's ecosystem to quickly build what you imagine. No-brainer to build UI: You concentrate on the logic, we push the pixels. Use our built-in UI components to be consistent with all our extensions. Collaborate with our community: Build your extension, share it with our community, and get inspired by others. Developer experience front and foremost: A strongly typed API, hot-reloading, and modern tooling that makes it a blast to work with. Easy to start, flexible to scale: Start with a simple script, add a static UI or use React to go wild. Anything goes. Overview A quick overview about where to find what in our docs: Basics: Go over this section to learn how to build extensions in our step-by-step guides. Teams: Build and share extensions with your teammates to speed up common workflows. Examples: Kickstart your extension by using an open-source example and learn as you go. Information: Get the background knowledge to master your understanding of our platform. API Reference: Go into details with the API reference that includes code snippets. Utilities: A set of utilities to streamline common patterns and operations used in extensions. Now, let's build 💪 Next Getting Started Last updated 2 years ago Key features Overview