Warp Agent CLI | Warp NEW: Warp Agent CLI, a new standalone CLI that lets you use the Warp Agent anywhere Learn More Products Warp Terminal A modern terminal for agentic coding Warp Agent The orchestration-native coding agent Warp Agent CLI A powerful coding agent that works in any terminal Oz Agent Platform Build your software factory Solutions Use Cases Code Review First-pass review on every PR Bug Investigation Reproduce bugs and route fixes Refactors & Migration Scope, migrate, and validate changes Incident Response Investigate alerts and summarize next steps Industry Financial Services Secure, compliant AI development Insurance Modernize policy & claims systems Telecommunications Scale with your network Resources Developers Docs API docs and guides Blog News and product updates Community Get help and connect Agent Kits Pre-built agent gallery Events Webinars and sessions Changelog What's new in Warp Roadmap See what we're building next Support Help and issue tracking Company About Our mission and team How We Work Our culture and values Careers Join the team at Warp Press Media coverage and press kit Research Reports and insights Newsroom Announcements and press releases Enterprise Overview Secure, compliant agentic development for your org Customers Teams shipping faster with Warp Pricing 64k Book a demo Get Started Products Warp Terminal A modern terminal for agentic coding Warp Agent The orchestration-native coding agent Warp Agent CLI A powerful coding agent that works in any terminal Oz Agent Platform Build your software factory Solutions Use Cases Code Review First-pass review on every PR Bug Investigation Reproduce bugs and route fixes Refactors & Migration Scope, migrate, and validate changes Incident Response Investigate alerts and summarize next steps Industry Financial Services Secure, compliant AI development Insurance Modernize policy & claims systems Telecommunications Scale with your network Resources Developers Docs API docs and guides Blog News and product updates Community Get help and connect Agent Kits Pre-built agent gallery Events Webinars and sessions Changelog What's new in Warp Roadmap See what we're building next Support Help and issue tracking Company About Our mission and team How We Work Our culture and values Careers Join the team at Warp Press Media coverage and press kit Research Reports and insights Newsroom Announcements and press releases Enterprise Overview Secure, compliant agentic development for your org Customers Teams shipping faster with Warp Pricing A coding agent for engineers who live in the terminal A state of the art, terminal-native coding agent CLI that keeps you in flow across sessions, remote systems, debuggers, and REPLs. Now available in any terminal. $ curl -fsSL https://app.warp.dev/download/agent-cli | bash Mac | Linux | Windows Introducing Warp Agent CLI: Now available in any terminal Watch Video 0 K Active Developers 0 % of the Fortune 500 0 K Agents Running Daily Case Study Multiplexer Accomplish more with Warp Agent's built-in multiplexer The Warp Agent CLI directly manages pty connections similarly to tmux, unlocking more powerful agent workflows. Drive interactive and full-screen tools Run terminal apps like sqlite and python through the agent session. Warp Agent can also control those apps. So within a REPL you can ask our agent to write queries or interactively debug code. Change directories and join remote hosts Sessions persist across directory changes and context switches. Change from your client directory to your server directory without losing agent context. SSH into a remote host and use the agent without installing a remote binary. Run shell commands without breaking your flow Use ! to run a shell command, or let Warp detect natural language automatically. If you forget a command argument, tab completion fills in the gap. Run complex multi-agent and cloud agent workflows Automatically orchestrate tasks across local and cloud subagents, each running in inspectable sessions so you can easily monitor progress and steer actions. Push local sessions to the cloud to keep steering on the go. Choose the right agent for each job Delegate work to cloud agents powered by Warp Agent, Claude Code, or Codex. Monitor and steer every session from one place while each task run is powered by your favorite agent. Model routing Multi-model, pareto-efficient, and endlessly customizable Frontier and open-weight models Warp Agent comes with a range of models out of the box. Automatic model-routing Requests flow to frontier or open-weight models depending on task complexity. Custom routers Define custom model routing logic and share the router across your whole team. At-cost pricing Inference is charged at API cost, no markup added. See what developers are saying Join a community of 800,000 developers using the Warp Agent. Anne T. Griffin @annetgriffin I think @warpdotdev is my favorite way to build. I’ve tried some other tools but I keep coming back to Warp. blix @kaihanwasely hot take but… @warpdotdev oz agents &gt; claude code Prasant Lokinendi @psantloki I feel like I spend 50% of my day in @warpdotdev as a PM now Rafal Lindemann @staminapl @marcinbunsch I really dig Warp - AI can lend me a hand when need be, very good UX around tabs and multiple terminals, quick directory tree with file previews, and last but not least, quick Diff with possible annotations for AI agents Robert Pratt @bponghneng One of those "what did we do before agents?" moments: I started using @warpdotdev nine months ago and two months ago promoted it to my primary software engineering tool. I had moved over from VS Code, and the biggest pain point was SSH remote file browser support. Now fixed! Tim Tairov @tim_tairov I'm loving @warpdotdev . I can run multiple agents and they also show notifications when they are done. 💪 Great day to get some dev work done. https://t.co/imqHr2z0qh Bessi @LLMpsycho The new Warp is absolutely incredible; it's already a default AI terminal for me. Osomudeya Zudonu @irvingpictures Warp CLI just caught a bug that Cursor and Claude both missed. This isn't a syntax error. A live Kubernetes API failure. drain-node was returning 415. I knew something was wrong with the endpoint. Threw it at Warp to see how it'd approach it. It grepped the repo, found working https://t.co/dZDqpS4fRs Pius “Wade” Boachie @lifeofwade @warpdotdev fixed an issue I was struggling with on Claude code for days !!! Zero coding experience. Anne T. Griffin @annetgriffin I think @warpdotdev is my favorite way to build. I’ve tried some other tools but I keep coming back to Warp. Rafal Lindemann @staminapl @marcinbunsch I really dig Warp - AI can lend me a hand when need be, very good UX around tabs and multiple terminals, quick directory tree with file previews, and last but not least, quick Diff with possible annotations for AI agents Bessi @LLMpsycho The new Warp is absolutely incredible; it's already a default AI terminal for me. blix @kaihanwasely hot take but… @warpdotdev oz agents &gt; claude code Robert Pratt @bponghneng One of those "what did we do before agents?" moments: I started using @warpdotdev nine months ago and two months ago promoted it to my primary software engineering tool. I had moved over from VS Code, and the biggest pain point was SSH remote file browser support. Now fixed! Osomudeya Zudonu @irvingpictures Warp CLI just caught a bug that Cursor and Claude both missed. This isn't a syntax error. A live Kubernetes API failure. drain-node was returning 415. I knew something was wrong with the endpoint. Threw it at Warp to see how it'd approach it. It grepped the repo, found working https://t.co/dZDqpS4fRs Prasant Lokinendi @psantloki I feel like I spend 50% of my day in @warpdotdev as a PM now Tim Tairov @tim_tairov I'm loving @warpdotdev . I can run multiple agents and they also show notifications when they are done. 💪 Great day to get some dev work done. https://t.co/imqHr2z0qh Pius “Wade” Boachie @lifeofwade @warpdotdev fixed an issue I was struggling with on Claude code for days !!! Zero coding experience. Get Warp today Get early access to unreleased and experimental features with Warp Preview Mac macOS Version 10.14+ $ brew install --cask warp Linux .deb Debian, Ubuntu .rpm Red Hat, Fedora, SUSE .deb x64 ARM64 .rpm x64 ARM64 .tar.zst Arch Linux x64 ARM64 AppImage x64 ARM64 Windows .exe Windows 11/10 x64 .exe Windows 11/10 ARM64 $ winget install Warp.Warp .exe x64 ARM64 Product Download Pricing Enterprise Changelog Docs Open Source Status Resources Blog FAQ Community Support Do Things with Warp Terminus Company About How We Work Careers Press Contact Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Security Cookie Notice Data Processing Addendum Enterprise License Connect X GitHub YouTube Slack LinkedIn Product Hunt 4.8★ (77) All Rights Reserved © 2026 SOC 2 Certified Checking Status…
