Warp Agent | Warp NEW: Warp Agent CLI, a new standalone CLI that lets you use the Warp Agent anywhere Learn More Products Warp Terminal A modern terminal for agentic coding Warp Agent The orchestration-native coding agent Warp Agent CLI A powerful coding agent that works in any terminal Oz Agent Platform Build your software factory Solutions Use Cases Code Review First-pass review on every PR Bug Investigation Reproduce bugs and route fixes Refactors & Migration Scope, migrate, and validate changes Incident Response Investigate alerts and summarize next steps Industry Financial Services Secure, compliant AI development Insurance Modernize policy & claims systems Telecommunications Scale with your network Resources Developers Docs API docs and guides Blog News and product updates Community Get help and connect Agent Kits Pre-built agent gallery Events Webinars and sessions Changelog What's new in Warp Roadmap See what we're building next Support Help and issue tracking Company About Our mission and team How We Work Our culture and values Careers Join the team at Warp Press Media coverage and press kit Research Reports and insights Newsroom Announcements and press releases Enterprise Overview Secure, compliant agentic development for your org Customers Teams shipping faster with Warp Pricing 64k Book a demo Get Started Products Warp Terminal A modern terminal for agentic coding Warp Agent The orchestration-native coding agent Warp Agent CLI A powerful coding agent that works in any terminal Oz Agent Platform Build your software factory Solutions Use Cases Code Review First-pass review on every PR Bug Investigation Reproduce bugs and route fixes Refactors & Migration Scope, migrate, and validate changes Incident Response Investigate alerts and summarize next steps Industry Financial Services Secure, compliant AI development Insurance Modernize policy & claims systems Telecommunications Scale with your network Resources Developers Docs API docs and guides Blog News and product updates Community Get help and connect Agent Kits Pre-built agent gallery Events Webinars and sessions Changelog What's new in Warp Roadmap See what we're building next Support Help and issue tracking Company About Our mission and team How We Work Our culture and values Careers Join the team at Warp Press Media coverage and press kit Research Reports and insights Newsroom Announcements and press releases Enterprise Overview Secure, compliant agentic development for your org Customers Teams shipping faster with Warp Pricing Agents / Warp Agent Claude Code Codex Gemini CLI Opencode Warp Agent Supercharge your coding workflows with Warp Agent Delegate to a state of the art agent harness with multi-agent orchestration, access to all the best models, codebase indexing, and granular permission controls. Download Warp See what developers are saying Join a community of 800,000 developers using Warp Agent Code Is Art @code_is_ @warpdotdev is genuinely one of the best pieces of software I've ever used. Anne T. Griffin @annetgriffin I think @warpdotdev is my favorite way to build. I've tried some other tools but I keep coming back to Warp. Hunter @hunterholland Tried @warpdotdev and it's so elite so far. I like to be able to review code an agent is generating and I had been using a ghostty terminal and then a vs code instance I would switch to for reviewing changes. I can stay in one place with warp. blix @kaihanwasely hot take but… @warpdotdev oz agents > claude code Vijay Bharadwaj @bharadwhat a good looking terminal? i love @warpdotdev with berkeley mono Schalk Neethling @scriptquiz The code review panel in @warpdotdev is seriously awesome! Zephyr @zephyrlogs The best terminal out there is @warpdotdev and it's not even close. Ilya Pashayan @ilya990000 5 tools that feel like cheating in 2026: Cursor, v0, Excalidraw, Warp, HyperDX. Warp: The only terminal that matters now. Spencer Hardwick @spenceships Warp has become my favorite terminal app by far btw Code Is Art @code_is_ @warpdotdev is genuinely one of the best pieces of software I've ever used. blix @kaihanwasely hot take but… @warpdotdev oz agents > claude code Zephyr @zephyrlogs The best terminal out there is @warpdotdev and it's not even close. Anne T. Griffin @annetgriffin I think @warpdotdev is my favorite way to build. I've tried some other tools but I keep coming back to Warp. Vijay Bharadwaj @bharadwhat a good looking terminal? i love @warpdotdev with berkeley mono Ilya Pashayan @ilya990000 5 tools that feel like cheating in 2026: Cursor, v0, Excalidraw, Warp, HyperDX. Warp: The only terminal that matters now. Hunter @hunterholland Tried @warpdotdev and it's so elite so far. I like to be able to review code an agent is generating and I had been using a ghostty terminal and then a vs code instance I would switch to for reviewing changes. I can stay in one place with warp. Schalk Neethling @scriptquiz The code review panel in @warpdotdev is seriously awesome! Spencer Hardwick @spenceships Warp has become my favorite terminal app by far btw Meet Warp Agent The state of the art coding agent built into Warp Multi-Repo Projects Warp Agent indexes your codebase in real time, pulls context from your Warp Drive, and works across multiple repos. Multi-model Access the latest models from OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, and xAI — plus top open-source models like GLM 5.2 and DeepSeek V4 — and switch between them seamlessly with full uptime. See supported models Backed by the full power of the terminal Warp Agent can run, monitor, and manage long-running commands like pip, REPLs, and your server logs. You can also use Warp Agent in your SSH environments. Natively integrated into Warp Kick off agents by typing in natural language, accepting a prompt suggestion, or typing /agent. Warp Agent comes fully bundled. Designed to adapt to your workflow Granular control over agent permissions. Determine what files agents can read from and write to, what MCP servers they can access, and what commands they can run. Compatible with all industry standards. Warp Agent has support for AGENT.md, Skills, MCP, and all other industry standards for agents. Easy to get started. When you initialize a codebase, Warp Agent will identify any existing Claude.md or Cursor.md files to make switching seamless. Join a community of 800,000 developers using Warp Agent Download Warp Get Warp today Get early access to unreleased and experimental features with Warp Preview Mac macOS Version 10.14+ $ brew install --cask warp Linux .deb Debian, Ubuntu .rpm Red Hat, Fedora, SUSE .deb x64 ARM64 .rpm x64 ARM64 .tar.zst Arch Linux x64 ARM64 AppImage x64 ARM64 Windows .exe Windows 11/10 x64 .exe Windows 11/10 ARM64 $ winget install Warp.Warp .exe x64 ARM64 Product Download Pricing Enterprise Changelog Docs Open Source Status Resources Blog FAQ Community Support Do Things with Warp Terminus Company About How We Work Careers Press Contact Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Security Cookie Notice Data Processing Addendum Enterprise License Connect X GitHub YouTube Slack LinkedIn Product Hunt 4.8★ (77) All Rights Reserved © 2026 SOC 2 Certified Checking Status…
