Reflect Update: MCP support for coding agents Reflect Product Pricing Company Blog Changelog Login Start Free Trial Open main menu Product Pricing Company Blog Changelog Login Start Free Trial Home Posts Reflect Update: MCP support for coding agents Reflect Update: MCP support for coding agents Reflect notes now has an MCP server to access and search your notes directly from within Claude and Codex. 🏗️ Product Updates • Published on Mar 10, 2026 Alex MacCaw Founder and CEO of Reflect Table of Contents Setting up and using the MCP server Table of Contents Setting up and using the MCP server Twitter Facebook LinkedIn We've added an MCP server to access and search your notes directly from within Claude and Codex. Find out how to set up and use it below. Setting up and using the MCP server We've added setup information to this page on Reflect Academy . It walks you through how to install the MCP server via the terminal. If you're not comfortable using your terminal, the academy page also has a setup guide that you can download and upload into your preferred coding agent and it will walk you through the setup. We have a walkthrough video of this here . Once setup, your coding agent will be able to access and retrieve any information in your notes. We've received a ton of requests for this MCP support in Reflect, so we hope you enjoy it! Share this post Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Written by Alex MacCaw Founder and CEO of Reflect Twitter Related posts 🏗️ Product Updates • Apr 28, 2026 Reflect Update: Edit your notes with coding agents We've expanded MCP functionality to let you edit your notes through these coding agents as well. This new functionality unlocks a ton of new workflows if you use coding agents. 🏗️ Product Updates • Aug 19, 2025 Reflect Update: Advanced Search on Mobile Last year, we added Advanced Search to our desktop app, making it easier and faster to find exactly what you’re looking for. Now, that same powerful filtering is available on mobile. 🏗️ Product Updates • Sep 23, 2025 Reflect Update: AI summaries for saved links We've shipped a few updates to Reflect, our AI powered note-taking app. Join our newsletter Email Subscribe Unsubscribe at any time. Reflect Twitter YouTube Reflect App, LLC. All rights reserved.