TITLE: {{IW4QaZoc2}}
URL: https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/blog/introducing-perplexity-deep-research

Introducing Perplexity Deep Research Blog Research Careers Help Center Ask anything Feb 14, 2025 Introducing Perplexity Deep Research Today we’re launching Deep Research to save you hours of time by conducting in-depth research and analysis on your behalf. When you ask a Deep Research question, Perplexity performs dozens of searches, reads hundreds of sources, and reasons through the material to autonomously deliver a comprehensive report. It excels at a range of expert-level tasks—from finance and marketing to product research—and attains high benchmarks on Humanity’s Last Exam. We believe everyone should have access to powerful research tools. That’s why we’re making Deep Research free for all. Pro subscribers receive a high volume of Deep Research queries, while non-subscribers will have access to a limited number of answers per day. Deep Research is available on Web starting today and will soon be rolling out to iOS, Android, and Mac. (Be sure update your apps to the latest version.) To give it a try, go to perplexity.ai and select “Deep Research” from the mode selector in the search box before submitting your query. How It Works Perplexity already excels at answering questions. Deep Research takes question answering to the next level by spending 2-4 minutes doing the work it would take a human expert many hours to perform. Here’s how it works: Research with reasoning - Equipped with search and coding capabilities, Perplexity’s Deep Research mode iteratively searches, reads documents, and reasons about what to do next, refining its research plan as it learns more about the subject areas. This is similar to how a human might research a new topic, refining one’s understanding throughout the process. Report writing - Once the source materials have been fully evaluated, the agent then synthesizes all the research into a clear and comprehensive report. Export & Share - You can then export the final report to a PDF or document, or convert it into a Perplexity Page and share it with colleagues or friends. Expand When to Use Deep Research We built Deep Research to empower everyone to conduct expert-level analysis across a range of complex subject matters. Deep Research excels at creating work artifacts in domains including finance, marketing, and technology, and is equally useful as a personal consultant in areas such as health, product research, and travel planning. Here are a a few examples of how you might use Deep Research on Perplexity. Finance Expand Marketing Expand Technology Expand Current Affairs Expand Health Expand Biography Expand Travel Expand Humanity’s Last Exam Deep Research on Perplexity attains a 21.1% accuracy score on Humanity’s Last Exam, significantly higher than Gemini Thinking, o3-mini, o1, DeepSeek-R1, and many other leading models. Humanity’s Last Exam⁠ is a comprehensive benchmark for AI systems consisting of over 3,000 questions across 100+ subjects ranging from mathematics and science to history and literature. Expand SimpleQA Scoring 93.9% accuracy on the SimpleQA benchmark — a bank of several thousand questions that test for factuality — Perplexity Deep Research far exceeds the performance of leading models. Expand Runtime Stats Deep Research on Perplexity not only attains high scores on industry benchmarks, but it does so while completing most research tasks in under 3 minutes — which we’re working to make even faster in the future. Expand Try it now for free by going to perplexity.com and selecting “Deep Research” in the search box. Company Perplexity Enterprise Brand Guidelines Careers Inquiries Privacy Policy Supply Store Security Terms & Conditions Product Comet Browser Desktop App iPhone App Android App Resources Getting Started Help Center Changelog Give Feedback API Platform API Overview API Models API Documentation API FAQs API Terms of Service Follow Us X (Twitter) Discord Instagram Threads LinkedIn YouTube © Copyright 2026 Perplexity
