Introducing Copilot Spaces: A new way to work with context ✨ · community · Discussion #160840 · GitHub Skip to content You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Dismiss alert {{ message }} GitHub Community Introducing Copilot Spaces: A new way to work with context ✨ #160840 Akash1134 announced in Copilot News and Announcements Introducing Copilot Spaces: A new way to work with context ✨ #160840 Akash1134 May 28, 2025 · 42 comments · 44 replies Return to top Discussion options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply edited by ebndev Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{editor}}'s edit {{actor}} deleted this content . {{editor}}'s edit Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Akash1134 May 28, 2025 Copilot Spaces is a new feature within GitHub Copilot. You can organize and centralize relevant content—like code, docs, files, and (soon) issues—into “Spaces” that ground Copilot’s responses in the right context for a specific task. Key Features ✨ Create a space Organize code, docs, files, and other project context into a space. Add custom instructions to help guide responses. We’ve made some adjustments to how Copilot works with context in Spaces, so context groundedness should be very high. Context is always based on the latest state of your main branch. Chat with a space Ask Copilot questions grounded in the context of your Space for more accurate and relevant answers. Share it with teammates You can share spaces with other members of your organization. Some of our favorite use cases ⭐ Answering questions about code: Chris Westra is an engineer on the Spaces team. He grouped all of the code associated with Spaces and added video transcripts from a recorded Spaces session. We use this Space to answer questions about how Spaces works under-the-hood (very meta). 🙂 Standardizing coding standards and best practices: Rahul Zhade works on a team that advises engineers on secure coding practices. He often answers the same questions over-and-over again in Slack, so he set up a Space. It contains the documentation for our standard auth model, how to do cryptography as well as instructions on how to go through the security review process. Writing SQL/KQL queries: Kelly Henckel is a product manager who is very good at writing SQL and KQL queries. She’s created spaces designed to help people self-service writing data queries and creating dashboards. These helpers contain the code for our telemetry schemas as well as example queries. Updating documentation: Holly Kassel is a product manager working on billing and licensing. She’s been updating GitHub’s documentation to be more user-friendly based on questions arriving through our customer support channels and discussion posts. She creates spaces for each new batch of documentation which needs to be updated, links the existing code and documentation hosted in GitHub, and adds instructions and frequently asked questions as context. The space generates updated versions of the documentation which can be easily copied into our docs repo. And more We’ve also been having fun with them. Hubbers created a personal finance space for answering questions about vesting and other benefits, an offsite space for consolidating travel information, and a wombat Space for, uh, wombats? Anyways… Please share feedback with us 🤝 This is an early preview, so we appreciate your feedback. Give spaces a try and let us know what you think either in this discussion post or through the inline feedback button. Go to Spaces 🚀 See the detailed changelog post . Learn more about spaces in our documentation on Copilot Spaces . 26 You must be logged in to vote ❤️ 13 🚀 1 All reactions ❤️ 13 🚀 1 Replies: 42 comments · 44 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply JoostVoskuil May 29, 2025 Wow... this was unexpected and very nice. It seems that I can only select owners as organisations where Copilot Access (to distribute seats) is enabled. I can't see the other organisations. I would expect that this is separate (same as the Coding Agent) policy where license distribution and organization settings are two separate things. 7 You must be logged in to vote 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 1 reply Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply albertjohn3 Jun 18, 2025 This feels like a huge step forward—finally, context that actually sticks and 7 Brew menu scales with the team. Excited to try it out! 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply christopherboard May 29, 2025 Looks good! Adding additional sources in future will be needed for greater adoption and scaling. For us, examples would be Confluence and Jira. 5 You must be logged in to vote 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 3 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel May 29, 2025 Glad to hear it Christopher! We're thinking about an MCP integration where you could connect Spaces with 3P servers for Confluence/JIRA/etc. 👍 7 🚀 1 All reactions 👍 7 🚀 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply christopherboard May 30, 2025 Sounds good. After using this a bit over past 24 hours, I think for an Enterprise like ours, we would for sure need MCP server integration for our other CI/CD/Agile tools with Jira and Confluence being big ones, along with being able to bring in more docs/code from a repo into the space as well. the 50 file limit, based on how our projects are broken down and organized, makes it painful for us to select the right scope for the spaces context. Ideally I could just select a whole repo, as well as some other docs/tickets and then that would give me a fantastic context to leverage this. 👍 5 All reactions 👍 5 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply tmpduarte Jun 26, 2025 indeed, allowing this to integrate with external tools that host documentation (e.g.: notion) would massively increase the context 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply sarthakpati May 30, 2025 This is awesome! It would be great if you could support >50 files directly, though. 😄 12 You must be logged in to vote 👍 2 All reactions 👍 2 11 replies --> Show 6 previous replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 4, 2025 And there is no way to break it down @sarthakpati ? There are no subsystems within the project? All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply sarthakpati Jun 5, 2025 There are, but even the sub-systems are larger than 50 files. 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 18, 2025 Makes sense! We're working on removing the file count limit to start with (or at least making it a lot higher). We should have something to play with soon. 👍 2 ❤️ 1 All reactions 👍 2 ❤️ 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply brooke-hamilton Jun 19, 2025 We need the full context of a whole repo in order for Spaces to be useful. Where most of the GitHub copilot tools break down is in not having the full context of the whole repo. 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply sarthakpati Jun 20, 2025 Thanks you so much, @khenckel ! All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply russeg May 30, 2025 how do i delete all the conversations? only way i see is to go to "..." then delete each one manually 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 1 reply Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel May 30, 2025 Unfortunately, that is the only way to do it. :/ May I ask what happened and why you'd like to delete all conversations? All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply Raventh23 May 30, 2025 is there any plan for Copilot Spaces to be reachable through Copilot in the IDE? 8 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 4 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel May 30, 2025 Absolutely! We're starting work on this now. 🎉 14 All reactions 🎉 14 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply assafbem Jun 12, 2025 Absolutely! We're starting work on this now. When that planned to be delievered? Thanks It is totally needed 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply concaoccc Jul 26, 2025 @khenckel is there any time about how to support this through Copilot in the IDE? All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply pskoett Aug 14, 2025 Any update pn this feature? This will make spaces 10 times more useful All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply andrzejressel May 30, 2025 Will it be possible to share non-organizational Copilot Spaces? I like having my project's docs in there, but currently I'm the only one who can use it. 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 4 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel May 30, 2025 Great idea, are you thinking with other specific users? All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply andrzejressel May 31, 2025 Nobody in particular - I would like this Copilot Spaces to be alternative way of reading documentation for all users. All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 2, 2025 Like a public Space? All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply davidcraig5 Jun 5, 2025 It seems like these should be managed like repos, being able to add users and teams. All reactions This comment was marked as off-topic. Sign in to view Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply warengonzaga May 31, 2025 Is there a way to use spaces within the VS Code Copilot Extension? I always struggle with Copilot as I work on multiple projects at once and I want to share the details of two repos into one chat. So this maybe solve it having a space for both repo to share context? 5 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 3 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 4, 2025 Great idea! We're getting started on this now! 🎉 ❤️ 8 All reactions ❤️ 8 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply edited Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{editor}}'s edit {{actor}} deleted this content . {{editor}}'s edit Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . zsakmany Jun 4, 2025 Came here for this :) it would be a great feat to link the extension to a specific space I have. So I can run it in agent mode with all the knowledge in the space. ❤️ 2 All reactions ❤️ 2 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply pskoett Aug 14, 2025 This is what I am looking for hope this gets done, would make spaces truly useful across teams and the org 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply aslafy-z May 31, 2025 This is really nice, awesome additions would be: whole repo selection without the need from selecting files one by one ways to add more context like pull requests/issues/commit infos agentic workflows with MCP support (open pull requests...) 12 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 1 reply This comment was marked as off-topic. Sign in to view Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply FrostyDSnowman Jun 2, 2025 Will we be able to include MSTeams' recordings to provide additional documentation and context? Will the meetings be accessible by CoPilot? 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 1 reply Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 4, 2025 Great idea. We'll support file uploads soon, but not sure about a direct integration yet. All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply aoi1 Jun 3, 2025 Hello! I'm really excited about this feature! Being able to call Copilot Spaces from the API would be incredibly helpful, as it would allow us to use it from Slack as well! 9 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 2 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 5, 2025 Are you thinking of calling a chat API or CRUD API? 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply sandstrom Sep 24, 2025 CRUD API All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply AndreaGriffiths11 Jun 3, 2025 This is so cool! Very excited to use it personally 3 You must be logged in to vote ❤️ 1 All reactions ❤️ 1 1 reply Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply khenckel Jun 4, 2025 Please let us know how you're using them @AndreaGriffiths11 ! It's such an early preview and all feedback is incredibly valuable for shaping the future direction. 👍 1 ❤️ 3 All reactions 👍 1 ❤️ 3 Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply htekdev Jun 4, 2025 I would like to see copilot spaces work with GitHub Coding Agent and event Copilot Chat. If you can either provide coding agent the ability to grab from organization or personal spaces, you can have coding agent have smaller context in tasking by referencing some space. We need this for our enterprise since we have enterprise standards for certain tasks and if folks can just create an issue referencing that standard to apply to their repo and assign to copilot that would be game changing!!!!! I foresee an issue body like this. Go through the guide found in `Code Space Link`. 6 You must be logged in to vote 👍 4 All reactions 👍 4 2 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply AYABD Jun 11, 2025 I absolutely share the same thought, add to that: -the ability of the coding agent to read images uploaded to an issue's description would be even better (because right now it doesn't seem like the coding agent is taking into context images when you assign it to an issue). All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply ZoltanDobo Aug 26, 2025 I feel the same. Spaces are OK, but with integration to Coding agent - we could spare so much instructions etc - to force coding agent to use specific framework etc. Also as Spaces would reindex files upon change, so we don't need to update instructions , it would be automatically in synch All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply hectorlaris Jun 5, 2025 I always trusted GitHub to do it! Thanks. 2 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply OleKristianH Jun 7, 2025 Having both Knowledge Bases and Spaces is confusing since Knowledge Bases are simply a subset of Spaces. They should be unified into a single system with different modes, even if they operate differently behind the scenes. 4 You must be logged in to vote 👍 3 All reactions 👍 3 0 replies --> 12 hidden items Load more… Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply cynthiateeters Jun 28, 2025 Use case: Copilot Spaces for GitHub Education Classroom I belong to a group of three who teach multiple courses using GitHub Classroom under a dedicated Education organization. All assignment repos live in that org and I will be having my students get Copilot Pro via the Student Pack. As instructors, we also have Copilot Pro through GitHub Education. We see huge potential in Copilot Spaces to: Bundle assignment specs, starter code, and instructions into one “Space” Give students consistent, curated context when they open Copilot Chat Ensure everyone (instructors and TAs) refers to the same materials The problem: When I try to create a Space, only orgs with Copilot seat-management enabled appear. Our Education org doesn’t show up, so we can’t register Spaces, even though all our repos and seats already live in that org via Classroom. Impact: Instructors can’t set up Spaces for assignments Students miss out on context-aware assistance tailored to each exercise We lose reproducibility and consistency across sections Request: Please enable Education organizations (using GitHub Classroom and Student Pack licenses) to create and manage Copilot Spaces independently of the seat-distribution settings. That way, we can keep all teaching workflows neatly inside our Classroom org. Thank you! 1 You must be logged in to vote 👍 1 All reactions 👍 1 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply rserrato-pdl Jul 2, 2025 This is an amazing feature!! I am just getting started and trying to use it in my organization. A question, will there be a way I can interact with more than one space in a conversation? for example if I have a space that has expertise in one topic and another that is expert in a different one, could I chat with both contexts in the same conversation? I think that would be very useful for large organizations where you have multiple sub-orgs each of them with their own business domains, technology stacks, standards, etc. Example, I ask the business domain expert about the current state of requirements or features of a system, then I ask the coding and testing standards expert to create the code component with tests, finally I ask the expert on CD to create the pipelines for the deployment of the application to the different environments. I know this could be approached with a monolithic space, or you could generate outputs from one space that you later import in a different one in a chained fashion, but I think having the ability to interact with many of them in the same session would be great to have. Thanks. 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply edited Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{editor}}'s edit {{actor}} deleted this content . {{editor}}'s edit Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . andrey-dubnik Jul 2, 2025 I would have to be able to link multiple repositories (+ discussions, issues, PRs) to a space to narrow down the data, this can be super helpful while dealing with: common issue troubleshooting which may come from the docs, discussions, etc. answering the questions about the product, again multiple possible sources of data code generation etc. I should also be able to only add files by type e.g. *.md flies only e.g. write some sort of a .gitignore file for each repository I'm including. This would help to filter out the "junk" which may otherwise bloat the context. 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply kitswas Jul 3, 2025 Copilot Spaces currently does not have access to tools to: Fetch data from the GitHub API (or any public API, even if I provide the link) Perform web searches Access real-time repository information So... what can it do? Most of the potential use cases need the user to feed data manually to the model. It badly needs the capability to send a GET request and read the response. And do web searches. Even the free AI that comes with search engines can do better. 2 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply brian-olson-usps Jul 14, 2025 Very nice feature. I would like to add categorization / tagging to the GitHub Space. For example, A Terraform Space would be tagged with #Ops A Linting Space would be tagged with #Dev and #Security An Accessibility Space (e.g., section 508) would be tagged with #Dev Then a person can search and filter Spaces based on the tags or display entire categories. 2 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply nnellanspdl Jul 14, 2025 I couldn't find this in the docs. Sorry if I missed this somewhere. What is the current size limit for a Space? I've added a little over 100 files to my Space and I'm sitting at 108% usage. 3 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply LasseHels Jul 15, 2025 Great feature. I would like: The ability to add all GitHub issues with a specific tag to a space. My team has years of reliability investigations in GitHub issues, and we would like to create a "reliability space" that engineers can use to debug new reliability issues with past knowledge. Right now, we have to manually add and maintain the list of issues attached to the space. It would be easier if we could configure the space to include all issues tagged Reliability . That way, tagging an issue with Reliability automatically adds it to the space, and removing the Reliability tag from an issue automatically removes it from the space. Spaces HTTP API with endpoints for: Creating a space. Deleting a space. Getting a space. Adding files to a space. Removing files from a space. Gauging space usage. Is anyone querying the space? Are they getting the answers they want? 6 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply LarissaSilvaFernandes Jul 26, 2025 Copilot Spaces: It's a new way to collaborate and work with shared context. Interesting! 0 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply pskoett Aug 14, 2025 MCP Server support would be awsome for this as well 2 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 1 reply Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply sandstrom Sep 24, 2025 Seems to be supported now. All reactions Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply pskoett Aug 15, 2025 Would be awsome if I could add an entire projects issues not only one like you just did with repositories 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply roybeny Aug 21, 2025 I assume this will be available for repos and org that are sing github.com, and not for self hosted github. correct? 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply ZoltanDobo Aug 26, 2025 I think GitHub Copilot Spaces is really useful, but there should be a way for the Coding Agent to reach into Spaces—almost like a code-specific RAG system. That would make it much easier for the Coding Agent to work with specific frameworks or integrations. Right now, we have to rely on instruction files, which are: Awkward to write and maintain Often out of sync with the project(s) Only partially followed by the agent in practice If the Coding Agent could integrate directly with Spaces, the workflow would be far smoother. Spaces already handle syncing and re-indexing whenever the project changes, so the agent would always have relevant, up-to-date context—without all the manual overhead. This kind of integration would make the Coding Agent far more reliable and effective in real-world projects. 6 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply SZegotaM Sep 1, 2025 As others have said in this thread, the ability to add an remote MCP server to the Copilot Spaces would me really great. Currently organization are building MCP server mostly locally and use their own agents. This is potential for github to open up a new way of sharing MCP server. For example, lets say I build an internal MCP that shares documentation of projects. Currently, i always rely on some kind of agent to make this useful. If we can simply add MCP server to the github copilot spaces, we instantly get the ability to share a secure bot with this MCP server to colleagues that are less technical. 3 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply davetapley Oct 27, 2025 An ability to add a repo's Wiki would be great. In fact, the ability to add any repo would solve this, since one could just use the Wiki's repo. 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies Comment options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply edited Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{editor}}'s edit {{actor}} deleted this content . {{editor}}'s edit Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Lyns-Data-Notes Dec 30, 2025 I've been using Copilot Spaces recently, and it's awesome. It would be even better if the following can be added: Allow users to select branch repo and add files from specified branch to the Space context - currently user can only select files from default branch of a repo. Allow users to add more files to the Space context - currently the size of files allowed is too limited. Allow users to sort spaces by the latest conversation or change of a space - currently it's sorted by space name by default. 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions 0 replies --> Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub . Already have an account? Sign in to comment Category 🗞️ Copilot News and Announcements Labels 🚀 Shipped A feature has been released 📣 ANNOUNCEMENT Announcements from the GitHub Community team Copilot Code accurately and faster with your AI powered pair-programmer. 50 participants and others Heading Bold Italic Quote Code Link Numbered list Unordered list Task list Attach files Mention Reference Menu Heading Bold Italic Quote Code Link Numbered list Unordered list Task list Attach files Mention Reference Select a reply Loading Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Create a new saved reply 👍 1 reacted with thumbs up emoji 👎 1 reacted with thumbs down emoji 😄 1 reacted with laugh emoji 🎉 1 reacted with hooray emoji 😕 1 reacted with confused emoji ❤️ 1 reacted with heart emoji 🚀 1 reacted with rocket emoji 👀 1 reacted with eyes emoji You can’t perform that action at this time.