 Page not found | askTog Follow @asktog askTog Interaction Solutions for the Real World Navigation Home Interaction Design Section Living Section About Bruce Tognazzini Publicity Photo Gallery NN/g Error 404 - Page not found! The page you are trying to reach does not exist, or has been moved. Please use the menus or the search box to find what you are looking for. First Principles Aesthetics Anticipation Autonomy Color Consistency Defaults Discoverability Efficiency of the User Explorable Interfaces Fitts's Law Human-Interface Objects Latency Reduction Learnability Metaphors Protect Users' Work Readability Simplicity State: Track it Visible Interfaces My Upcoming Courses/Conferences My Interaction Design course: Build a firm foundation in interaction design with this three day course. Spring 2014 schedule: New York: March 9-11, 2014 Atlanta: April 28-30, 2014 Chicago: May 12-14, 2014 London: June 1-3, 2014 San Francisco: June 22-24, 2014 You may be coming in cold from engineering, graphic design, psychology, or beyond. You may already be an interaction designer wanting to "fill in the blanks," establishing a more solid theoretical and practical base. You may be taking on the management of a group of HCI designers. I've designed this course for each one of you. Join me as I teach the original Apple method, showing you how to not only organize for and develop successful designs, but to sell them, painlessly and effectively, to engineering and upper management. It's intense, yes: A one-semester-equivalent with a strong, real-world bias. However, we have a lot of fun along the way, and you'll leave with your team having designed and built a complete project, so you will have not only learned, but experienced the entire method. User Experience Conference Website There's more than my course at an NN/g conference. You'll find a breadth of other specialized courses and networking opportunities that will put you and your company at the leading edge of the usability curve. Subscribe / Connect Subscribe to the askTog RSS feed or, for new article announcements and the rare pithy comment, follow me on Twitter Contact Us: Bruce Tognazzini Copyright Bruce Tognazzini. All Rights Reserved 
