Tools & Craft – Notion Blog Thoughts on the future of work, from the people and teams creating it. Latest Notion HQ For Teams Inspiration Pioneers Tech First Block Notion HQ Security update (July ’26) A security update from Notion Daniel Pyykonen Notion HQ ZeroEntropy is joining Notion ZeroEntropy builds efficient, task-specific models made for knowledge work Sarah Sachs Inspiration Kassidy Knight builds everything (including the agents that keep her sane) Kassidy Knight built one Notion system for work and life. Now her custom agent helps keep it running, so she has more time to build. Jordan Miller Customer Content Marketing, Notion Notion HQ Meet Notion’s Board of Directors We’re excited to announce Notion’s board of directors: Jonathan Chadwick, Pat Grady, Gretchen Howard, Christopher Payne, and Patrick Hsu. Ivan Zhao Tech Building observability into Notion’s dead-letter queue Learn how we built a self-serve DLQ Explorer that makes failed jobs easy to query, debug, and safely replay—without direct S3 access. Maya Lekhi Engineering, Notion Notion HQ Introducing Notion’s Developer Platform We're excited to introduce Notion's Developer Platform—new building blocks that give developers and agents the capabilities to extend what's possible in Notion and take it beyond. Max Schoening Head of Product, Notion Notion HQ What we learned during the Custom Agents beta Custom Agents are your AI teammates that handle entire workflows autonomously. They take the repetitive work off your hands so you can focus on the work that needs you. Akshay Kothari Co-founder, Notion Tech Enabling Multi-Region Data Systems at Notion Learn how we built multi-region data infrastructure—spanning search, analytics, AI, and event logging—to ensure customer data is processed and stored entirely within its home region. Justin Lee, Adam Hudson Inspiration The cure for “execution tax” How the Global CEO of Brainlabs set out to eliminate the gap between deciding and doing by building a company-wide AI operating layer on Notion—and why he started having beautiful days at work. Áine Dundas Head of EMEA Marketing Tech How Notion catches breaking schema changes before they reach production How we built a CI guardrail to catch breaking schema changes automatically, and some of the design decisions that shaped it. Maya Lekhi Engineering, Notion