GitHub - linear/linear: Tools, SDK's and plugins for Linear · GitHub Skip to content You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Dismiss alert {{ message }} Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . linear / linear Public Notifications You must be signed in to change notification settings Fork 280 Star 1.5k master Branches Tags Go to file Code Open more actions menu Folders and files Name Name Last commit message Last commit date Latest commit History 738 Commits 738 Commits .changeset .changeset .github .github .husky .husky docs docs e2e e2e examples/ nextjs-file-upload examples/ nextjs-file-upload packages packages .env.example .env.example .gitignore .gitignore .nvmrc .nvmrc .prettierignore .prettierignore .prettierrc .prettierrc LICENSE LICENSE README.md README.md eslint.config.mjs eslint.config.mjs linear.code-workspace linear.code-workspace package.json package.json pnpm-lock.yaml pnpm-lock.yaml pnpm-workspace.yaml pnpm-workspace.yaml tsconfig.json tsconfig.json View all files Repository files navigation Linear API The purpose-built tool for planning and building products Streamline issues, projects, and product roadmaps with the system for modern software development. ⚠️ Monorepo Readme If you are looking for documentation on the Linear SDK or Linear API, visit developers.linear.app instead. The Linear Client uses custom GraphQL Code Generator plugins to produce a typed SDK for all operations and models exposed by the Linear production API. Structure This monorepo uses pnpm workspaces to manage and publish packages. Generated code uses file prefix _generated and should never be manually updated. Open source packages: sdk - The Linear Client SDK for interacting with the Linear GraphQL API import - Import tooling for uploading from other systems codegen-doc - GraphQL codegen plugin to generate GraphQL fragments and documents codegen-sdk - GraphQL codegen plugin to generate Typescript SDK from fragments and documents codegen-test - GraphQL codegen plugin to generate a jest test for the Typescript SDK Get Started Make sure you have Node 18+ and Corepack enabled ( corepack enable ). # install dependencies pnpm install # build all packages pnpm build # test all packages pnpm test # update the schema from the production API pnpm schema # create changeset for generating CHANGELOG.md pnpm changeset Plugin Flow The @linear/codegen-doc plugin is used by codegen.doc.yml to generate fragments and documents The @linear/codegen-sdk plugin is used by codegen.sdk.yml to generate the typed Linear SDK The @linear/codegen-test plugin is used by codegen.test.yml to generate a typed jest test License Licensed under the MIT License . About Tools, SDK's and plugins for Linear Resources Readme MIT license Activity Custom properties Stars 1.5k stars Watchers 21 watching Forks 280 forks Report repository Releases Packages Used by Contributors Languages You can’t perform that action at this time.