# User Interface Logic | Heptabase Public Wiki
URL: https://wiki.heptabase.com/user-interface-logic

User Interface Logic | Heptabase Public Wiki Skip to main content Heptabase Public Wiki Docs Roadmap Changelog Newsletters Help Center Try Heptabase Heptabase Public Wiki Getting Started Getting started with Heptabase Use Case and Workflow Fundamental Elements User Interface Logic Video Tutorials Founder's Demo Keyboard Shortcuts Workflow Vision AMA Record User Interface Logic English 中文 日本語 Left Sidebar ​ Top: Research a topic and Apps ​ You can think of Heptabase as an operating system, and the upper part of its left sidebar displays a "Research a topic" button and all the default installed Apps. Each App has a specific purpose, and all Apps share the same card database. At the very top of the left sidebar, you'll find the Research a topic button. Clicking it opens an interface where you can upload various types of content, including PDFs, YouTube links, documents (.docx, .txt, .md), and images. After uploading, simply click Start research on a new whiteboard , and the system will: Turn all your uploaded content into cards and create a new whiteboard with all of them on it. Automatically parse PDF content and download YouTube video transcripts. Open the chat right sidebar and suggest questions based on all your cards on the whiteboard, so you can start asking the AI about this whiteboard. Below the Research a topic button is an overview of each App in Heptabase: Inbox : Every card you create via the Cmd + N shortcut, the mobile app, or the web clipper will show up here so you can organize them later. You can also see all unfinished to-dos across your cards. If you use collaboration and a collaborator mentions your name in a thread, you’ll receive a notification here. Journal : See all your journal cards here. Use your daily journals to quickly capture ideas and to-dos. Whiteboard : See all your whiteboards here. You can create sub-whiteboards and use them to build a comprehensive visual structure for complex topics you’re learning and researching. Card Library : See all your cards here. When you open a card, the info panel shows which whiteboards it appears on, along with its tags and properties. Tag Database : See all your tags here and group them into different collections. You can also connect your Zotero account here to import your academic references and PDFs into Heptabase. Highlight : See all the highlights you’ve made on PDF cards or imported from Readwise. If you don’t have any highlights, this app won’t appear. Chat : See all your chats here. These can be private AI chats or shared chats with collaborators. Bottom: Tabs ​ The lower half of the Heptabase left sidebar is the "Tab System." When you click the New tab button, you'll see a screen similar to Google Search. Here, you can search for cards or whiteboards to open them as tabs, enter a URL or search Google to open a web tab, or paste a YouTube link to open a YouTube video tab. When you expand a card from the card library, it will open as a card tab. Similarly, whiteboards and tags will each open as new tabs. The design of the Heptabase tab system is very similar to traditional browsers, including the following types of tabs: Normal Tab : When you open a card, a whiteboard, or a tag, it will open into a normal tab, and you can close it at any time by clicking on the cross button. Web Tab : You can open any website directly inside Heptabase as a web tab (desktop version only) using global search or the new tab button. This allows you to browse web content while taking notes and chatting with AI about what you're viewing, keeping everything integrated in your workspace. Pinned Tab : You can pin frequently opened tabs, keeping them always open at the top of the left sidebar. Tab Folder : When you have many pinned tabs at the top of the left sidebar, you might consider adding a tab folder to organize these pinned tabs. Tab Group : You may consider creating tab groups to separate different use case. For example, you can create a tab group for "Work" and "Life", and when you need to access notes related to life, you go to the "Life" tab group and view all the normal tabs, pinned tabs, and tab folders in this group. Right Sidebar ​ When you open a Heptabase tab, you'll see several buttons in the top-right corner. These buttons let you open the apps or tools you want on the right side of the tab. Below is an introduction to each app and tool that can be opened in the right sidebar: Chat : You can view all chats in the Chat app. If you're on a card tab or a whiteboard tab, you can also show only the chats related to the current tab. Card library : You can browse all cards in the Card Library. When you click a card, it opens in the side panel as a reference. For example, you can keep the cards you'll reference open on the right while writing. If you're on a whiteboard tab, you can also drag cards directly onto the whiteboard. Additionally, you can use the AI suggestions filter to see cards related to your selected cards, helping you discover relevant cards across your space. Journal : You can freely switch between different days’ journal cards in Journal. Highlight : This app appears only on PDF card tabs and whiteboard tabs. On a PDF card tab, it shows all highlights and annotations of that card. On a whiteboard tab, you can drag selected highlights onto the whiteboard. Table of contents : This tool appears only on card pages and whiteboard pages. On card pages, you can see the hierarchy of headings; on whiteboard pages, you can see the hierarchy of sections. Info : This tool appears only on card tabs and whiteboard tabs. It shows the creation time, last edited time, and other cards that mention this tab. On card tabs, you can also see the word count, tags, properties, and all whiteboards that include this card. Whiteboard location : This tool appears only on card pages. It lets you know on which whiteboards—and where on them—the current card appears. Insight : This tool appears only on card pages. If the card is lengthy (e.g., long-form writing, book notes, transcripts), you can use the AI Insight feature to quickly grasp all key insights in the card. The feature chunks the original content into units of about 300 characters and summarizes one key insight for each chunk, with each insight linking back to its source chunk. This feature is in early testing and has a monthly usage limit. Task : This tool appears only in Journal. You can see all to-dos that are due on that day and are still incomplete. Global Tool ​ Global Search ​ Use Cmd + O to open Global Search, where you can search all cards, whiteboards, chats, and tags in Heptabase. You can also search Google or YouTube directly from Global Search and open websites as web tabs within Heptabase. Global Search includes advanced filters that allow you to: Choose which card types to search for (note cards, PDF cards, video cards, image cards, etc.) Specify whether to include text elements and mindmaps from whiteboards, chat messages, or web content in the search results. Sort results by relevance or time. Command Palette ​ Use Cmd + K to find all quick actions and their keyboard shortcuts in Heptabase. 左側欄（Left Sidebar） ​ 上半部：研究主題和應用程式（Research a topic and Apps） ​ 你可以把 Heptabase 想像成一個作業系統，它的左側欄上半部顯示了「研究主題」按鈕和所有預設的 App。每一個 App 都有特定的用途，而所有的 App 都共享著同一個卡片的資料庫。 在左側欄的最上方，你會找到 研究主題（Research a topic） 按鈕。打開後你可以上傳各種類型的內容，包括 PDF、YouTube 連結或播放清單、文件（.docx、.txt、.md）和圖片。上傳後，只需點擊 在新白板上開始研究（Start research on a new whiteboard） ，系統就會： 將你上傳的所有內容轉換成卡片，並建立一個包含所有這些卡片的新白板。 自動解析 PDF 內容並下載 YouTube 影片的逐字稿。 開啟右側的對話欄，並根據白板上的所有卡片建議問題，讓你可以開始向 AI 詢問關於這個白板的問題。 在 研究主題 按鈕下方，則是 Heptabase 預設的 App： Inbox ：你透過 Cmd + N 快捷鍵、行動 App 或網頁擷取工具建立的每張卡片都會出現在這裡，讓你方便日後整理。你也能在這裡看到所有卡片中尚未完成的 To-do。如果你有使用協作功能，並且你的協作者在某串對話中提到你的名字，你也可以在這邊收到通知。 Journal ：你可以在這邊看到你所有的日誌卡片，在每天的日誌中快速紀錄想法和待辦事項。 Whiteboard ：你可以在這邊看到你所有的白板。你可以在白板中創建子白板，利用這些白板來為你正在學習和研究的複雜主題建立完整的視覺化的架構。 Card Library ：你可以在這邊看到你所有的卡片。點開卡片後，你可以從卡片資訊欄看到它在哪些白板出現過、有哪些標籤和屬性。 Tag Database ：你可以在這邊看到你所擁有的全部標籤，並且將這些標籤分在不同的群組裡頭。你也可以在這裡連接 Zotero 帳號，將