# AI command nodes
URL: https://outliner.tana.inc/learn/features/ai-command-nodes

Tana Outliner Sign up Log in Learn Guides Templates Help Changelog Getting around Sidebar Navigation Workspaces Daily notes Command line Commands and shortcuts Nodes Outline editor Nodes and references Node types Dates and calendar nodes Checkboxes and progress bars Structure and views Supertags Fields Views Search nodes Related content AI and automation Tana AI AI Chat AI Agents AI command nodes AI for builders Command nodes Voice and meetings AI meeting notetaker Meeting agent Live voice transcription Mobile Voice Memos Apps Tana Outliner for desktop Tana Mobile Tana Capture Integrations and API Calendar integration Readwise integration API and MCP Input API Tana Publish Data and templates Tana Outliner templates Copy-paste and export Import data into Tana Outliner from other tools Tana Paste Tana Intermediate Format Account Account settings Payment, billing and AI credits Tana Outliner Sign up Log in Learn Guides Templates Help Changelog Getting around Sidebar Navigation Workspaces Daily notes Command line Commands and shortcuts Nodes Outline editor Nodes and references Node types Dates and calendar nodes Checkboxes and progress bars Structure and views Supertags Fields Views Search nodes Related content AI and automation Tana AI AI Chat AI Agents AI command nodes AI for builders Command nodes Voice and meetings AI meeting notetaker Meeting agent Live voice transcription Mobile Voice Memos Apps Tana Outliner for desktop Tana Mobile Tana Capture Integrations and API Calendar integration Readwise integration API and MCP Input API Tana Publish Data and templates Tana Outliner templates Copy-paste and export Import data into Tana Outliner from other tools Tana Paste Tana Intermediate Format Account Account settings Payment, billing and AI credits Tana Outliner AI command nodes AI command nodes Log in Sign up Feature AI command nodes AI command nodes are reusable actions that send your notes to an AI model with a prompt you define, then write the result back into Tana Outliner. You configure what data gets sent, which model to use, and where the output goes. Use the Prompt Workbench to preview exactly what gets sent and test results before running commands on real data. For an intro on command nodes and all non-AI commands, see Command nodes 🧪 Prompt workbench When you trigger an AI command, the AI is given a prompt composed of a request + your data. The challenge of writing prompts is that it's hard to get it right the first time. To get it right necessitates rapid iteration cycles where you can compare and contrast results, and you need to understand exactly what gets sent to AI when you run that command. This is what the Prompt workbench was built for. Commands with prompts Many of the AI commands will ask for a *prompt. *The Prompt workbench is available for these, including: Ask AI Ask AI (non-streaming) Make API request Generate image(s) with AI Transcribe audio Text processing agent How it works Here's a quick primer on how it works: Building a command: When you use a command that requires a prompt , a button will appear called "Prompt workbench". Opening the prompt workbench: This opens up a new panel where you can do rapid iteration testing of a prompt and its parameters to see the kind of answer they yield. Node to test with (required): This is necessary context to set so the workbench has a real node to test the prompt on. The context is sent by default after the prompt. Custom prompt (required): This is where you build your prompt which gets sent to an AI. You must include some kind of reference to or expression that embeds your content into the prompt, otherwise the job will run context-less. A prompt expression looks like this: ${name} . For more, see below . Expanded prompt: When you have composed your prompt with the expressions, you can preview what gets sent to AI. It will show your custom prompts with the expressions replaced with actual content based on the node you're testing with. You'll also see an estimate of how many tokens the prompt shown will cost if you send it. Configure and test: Use the sliding scale to increase model creativity. Ready to test: When you're ready to send a test job, hit "Test AI completion". This does spend AI credits, which you can monitor by running the command AI Credit Monitor Prompt expressions Prompt expressions allows you to refer to parts of the content in a prompt. Prompt expression keywords When you use a command that generates new content in a draft panel, you can edit the prompt of the command directly in the prompt editor: You can use @ to trigger a menu of options, to tweak the prompt to give you the output you want - you can also reference specific nodes here: Full list of prompt expression keywords: Context (All data from current node, incl. all fields and children) Content (All content from current node, incl. the node's children, excluding content inherited from supertag) Source* (All content from source material from voice memos/transcription)* Source or content (Source material from voice memo or content if no source material) Chat (All content in chat, for use in chat-commands) Node ID* (The unique ID of the node)* Node name (The name/title of the current node) Node URL* (A URL if the node has one)* Owner (of node) (Where this node lives) Tags ( The tags on a node) Created At (Time when the node was created) Current Date (The date today) Current DateTime (Time and date right now) Date from day node (the date from ancestor day node) Date from calendar node (Date based on ancestor calendar node, if any) Description (The description of the node) Done time (What time a checkbox was checked by a user) Edited by (All users who have edited the node, most frequent editor at the top) Last modified at (The last time the node was modified) Last modified by* (The last user who modified the node)* Last edited time (The time of the last edit) Last edited by (The user who last edited the node) Prompt expressions (advanced) *These were the original prompt expressions, the keywords above was added for easier use in some use cases, but all existing prompt expressions will continue to work and can be used for more advanced configurations. * Prompt expressions in Tana Outliner are built like Title expressions, with some extra functionality: To get the name of the node that you are targeting, use&nbsp; ${name} To reference field values, use&nbsp; ${field&nbsp;label} . To reference the entire node context with all fields and children in Tana Outliner Paste format, use ${sys:context} To return a node's supertags, use ${sys:tags} To show a node's children (excluding content inherited from supertag), use ${sys:content} To insert the current date/date and time, use ${sys:currentDate} and ${sys:currentDateTime} respectively. Keep in mind that GPT doesn't know the current date or time natively. To return the URL and ID of the node, use ${sys:nodeURL} and ${sys:nodeId} respectively. All of the normal title expressions are also available. Extra: to get the full context of the field content, use a field definition . Reminder: Prompt expressions only work in nodes. They do not work if within references. Bonus: Expand References This operator will include the expanded owned content of references that are direct children of the target. This is handy if you want to include content that is not directly related to the node you're running the command on, if you want the results of a search node reference to be included, or if there are field values you want expanded in the prompt. All AI commands and parameters To prevent infinite loops where AI commands are triggered from another AI commmands, a warning message will be shown, if Tana Outliner detects an event triggered on a node that was created by AI, that was similar to an event that was triggered less than 60 seconds ago. The event system will then be disabled and Tana Outliner will have to be reloaded to start it again. Ask AI Renamed from Generic AI query on Jan 2