# Obsidian’s New Bases Feature is The Biggest Update Since Properties
URL: https://medium.com/obsidian-observer/obsidians-new-bases-feature-is-the-biggest-update-since-properties-2aad08a102eb

Obsidian’s New Bases Feature is The Biggest Update Since Properties | by Theo Stowell | Obsidian Observer | Medium Medium Obsidian’s New Bases Feature is The Biggest Update Since Properties | by Theo Stowell | Obsidian Observer | Medium Sitemap Open in app Sign up Sign in Medium Logo Get app Write Search Sign up Sign in Obsidian Observer · Follow publication Welcome to The Obsidian Observer, a hub for all Obsidian enthusiasts. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned pro, our publication delivers in-depth how-to guides, innovative workflows, and captivating opinions to help unlock your note-taking potential. Follow publication Press enter or click to view image in full size Member-only story Obsidian Pkm Productivity Notetaking Programming Obsidian’s New Bases Feature is The Biggest Update Since Properties And both tie together very nicely… Theo Stowell Follow 6 min read · Jul 28, 2025 108 2 Listen Share If you’re not a Medium member you can still read this piece for free by clicking my friend link here — Obsidian’s New Bases Feature is The Biggest Update Since Properties Now, this isn’t the first piece of work on the internet published about Obsidian Bases. But I made a YouTube video that I shared when Bases first came out… …and so I thought I could take my time with putting together this article. The video was a very off-the-cuff piece of work that I recorded in one take when I read on Twitter that the new feature had come out. I jumped straight on recording, with no preparation, because I knew how important and powerful Bases were going to be inside the PARAZETTEL system in my vault ( which you can try for free at this link ). Since then, I’ve been very busy with university work (I’ve now graduated completely!) and I’ve neglected to write a longer, more… Create an account to read&nbsp;the&nbsp;full&nbsp;story. The&nbsp;author made this story available to&nbsp;Medium&nbsp;members&nbsp;only. If you’re new to Medium, create a new account to read this story on us. Continue in app Or, continue in mobile web Sign up with Google Sign up with Facebook Sign up with email Already have an account? Sign&nbsp;in 108 108 2 Follow Published in Obsidian Observer 4.5K followers · Last published&nbsp; 1 day ago Welcome to The Obsidian Observer, a hub for all Obsidian enthusiasts. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned pro, our publication delivers in-depth how-to guides, innovative workflows, and captivating opinions to help unlock your note-taking potential. Follow Follow Written by Theo Stowell 1.8K followers · 29 following Insights about note-taking, productivity, Obsidian and more • Learn how to set up a personalised PKM system in &lt; 2 weeks @ https://parazettel.com/signup Follow Help Status About Careers Press Blog Store Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech