# Addicted to Block References<br>MS Office vs. Roam vs. Obsidian
URL: https://www.zsolt.blog/2021/05/Addicted-to-block-references.html

Addicted to Block References&lt;br&gt;MS Office vs. Roam vs. Obsidian Skip to main content A blog about thinking tools, business analysis techniques and models, algorithms of thought, note taking, journaling, visual thinking, mind mapping, task management and productivity. Search Search This Blog Home Note-taking More… Roam Home Note-taking Roam Home Note-taking Roam Addicted to Block References MS Office vs. Roam vs. Obsidian May 23, 2021 Setting the stage I am leading a project to review my company’s business strategy. I want to identify projects for next year’s business plan and to create a strong link between the strategy and our projects. This will help in storytelling with the people delivering these projects and to the executives governing the strategy. This exercise has put the gap between information and knowledge management tools I use in private and available at work in the spotlight. There are four capabilities I miss most at work: backlinks, block references, tags, and a query language to work with the information. This post is about how I managed the process using standard office tools like Word, SharePoint, PowerPoint, and Excel, and how I could have incorporated Roam or Obsidian into this workflow were those available at work. Spoiler alert! I have not found the silver bullet. While there is room for better linking and referencing in MS Office products, Roam or Obsidian wouldn't solve the challenge without supporting tools either. There are many trade-offs to consider. I need an ecosystem of tools to implement an efficient solution. In addition, there is no way around the hard work of reading, understanding and analyzing the strategy, and translating ideas into projects. Maybe a time will come when artificial intelligence can do this for us, but for now, this is a strenuous task that requires careful thought and a well-thought-through process. Business context I am heading up IT for our downstream business (refining, logistics and marketing). It is my role to translate the business strategy into an IT narrative. I must make sure that those who are delivering resulting IT projects and services understand how the pieces of the puzzle fit and how their work impacts others. I want to tell a story that starts with the business objectives and ends with concrete implications for our IT systems, services, technical skills, supplier contracts, etc. We operate hundreds of applications and thousands of interfaces. We serve complex internal workflows and many customer and legal requirements. Applications, data, and infrastructure are grouped based on business outcomes. We call these groups IT Capability Groups. There are over thirty Capability Groups for downstream. Routing and Scheduling, for example, supports the planning and execution of road transportation in 12 countries, including scheduling and dispatching, on-truck computers, and order generation for customers on our vendor-managed inventory (VMI) service, etc. Another example, the Customer Experience Capability Group, includes all our customer-facing tools such as e-commerce, customer relationship management, contract generation, e-invoicing, electronic data exchange, and more. Other examples are Environmental Management, Process and Fire Safety, Project Management, and Maintenance. IT roadmaps define the work we need to succeed in the coming years. We use IT Capability Groups, to organize our IT roadmaps. From strategy to IT business plan Here's the high-level process we have designed to work our way through the analysis. We first went over the strategy white paper with a marker to highlight each part that referenced anything digital. Our goal was to identify all the areas where IT could support the business strategy and to understand the impact of that strategy on IT. We then mapped these topics to the IT Capability Groups to assess the impact on IT roadmaps. Finally, all this analysis will land in the work plan for 2022 that will get translated into the business plan. Capability Groups are not standalone entities. They are highly interdependent. Just think of the relationship between customer experience, routing and scheduling, and production planning. Customer orders will trigger deliveries, we send invoices after successful deliveries; the refinery produces products in line with customer demand forecasts, and even the best delivery schedule breaks if there is not enough inventory to meet all the customer orders. This sequence of mappings ensures the traceability of requirements. It also provides the story to help IT operations and project teams understand how their work fits the bigger picture, to help with onboarding, and with identifying dependencies, integration points, risks, and opportunities. We also need the same mapping to track project and operational costs during budget planning and execution. Backlinks, Tags, Block References, and query I'd like to clarify a few concepts, before diving into the solutions. Forward links Forward links are references in a text that point to other documents. In Markdown we represent these links with double brackets. A forward link to the Routing and Scheduling Capability Group would take the form of [[Routing and Scheduling]] . Forward links are very common. You use them every day as you browse the internet. They are the links on a webpage that takes you to other pages. Backlinks Backlinks are the references that other pages make as viewed from "this" document. They are like citations. Backlinks are becoming increasingly common in knowledge and information management tools. They provide powerful ways to navigate a corpus of documents and to understand the broader context of a note. For example, backlinks could list all the locations in the white paper referencing a given IT project, service, or Capability Group. Tags Tags are categories. In Roam and Obsidian tags start with a hash (or number) sign, e.g. #project . You may organize tags into namespaces using the slash character, e.g. #Commerce/CustomerExperience or #Logistics/RoutingAndScheduling . In Roam tags are just a stylistic choice, under the hood, they behave exactly the same as page links. In Obsidian, tags behave differently. The built-in tag-pane plugin displays tags in a tree-hierarchy following the namespace structure and shows the number of references to each tag within the vault (i.e. the corpus of documents handled by Obsidian). Block references Block references take linking and referencing between documents to a whole new level. Blocks are another name for paragraphs in a document. They represent the unit of thought. In tools like Roam, Logseq, or Obsidian, using block references you can transclude a block of text into another document, thus citing a thought verbatim from another document and maintaining the link to the original text. Roam takes blocks and block references a step further by adding versions to blocks, i.e. you can maintain links to earlier versions of the text as your document evolves. Block References in Obsidian You can create a reference to a block by typing [[^^ continued with part of the text from the block you want to reference. A search window will pop up helping you select the block you want to reference. Once created, a block reference will look like this:&nbsp; Obsidian adds the reference ^fa2cae to the end of the referenced paragraph. The exclamation mark (!) in front of the brackets on the left tells Obsidian that the text should be transcluded, i.e. when you change from edit to preview mode, Obsidian will replace the block reference with the text from the source block.&nbsp; If there are multiple references to a block across multiple documents, the search can quickly display all those references.&nbsp; Block References in Roam In Roam, every block has a block-id by default. In fact, under the hood, Roam stores documents as graphs, blocks being the nodes of the graph. Roam stores blocks and their relationships. Block references and the page on whi