TITLE: AI Pair Programming in Your Terminal
URL: https://aider.chat/
PUBLISHED: 
LEN: 2953 chars

Aider - AI Pair Programming in Your Terminal Features Getting Started Documentation Discord GitHub AI pair programming in your terminal Aider lets you pair program with LLMs to start a new project or build on your existing codebase. Get Started Documentation Your browser does not support the video tag. ⭐ GitHub Stars 44K 📦 Installs 6.8M 📈 Tokens/week 15B 🔄 Singularity 88% Features Cloud and local LLMs Aider works best with Claude 3.7 Sonnet, DeepSeek R1 & Chat V3, OpenAI o1, o3-mini & GPT-4o, but can connect to almost any LLM, including local models. Maps your codebase Aider makes a map of your entire codebase, which helps it work well in larger projects. 100+ code languages Aider works with most popular programming languages: python, javascript, rust, ruby, go, cpp, php, html, css, and dozens more. Git integration Aider automatically commits changes with sensible commit messages. Use familiar git tools to easily diff, manage and undo AI changes. In your IDE Use aider from within your favorite IDE or editor. Ask for changes by adding comments to your code and aider will get to work. Images & web pages Add images and web pages to the chat to provide visual context, screenshots, reference docs, etc. Voice-to-code Speak with aider about your code! Request new features, test cases or bug fixes using your voice and let aider implement the changes. Linting & testing Automatically lint and test your code every time aider makes changes. Aider can fix problems detected by your linters and test suites. Copy/paste to web chat Aider works best with LLM APIs, but it can also work an LLM via its web chat interface. Aider streamlines copy/pasting code back and forth with a browser. Getting Started python -m pip install aider-install aider-install # Change directory into your codebase cd /to/your/project # DeepSeek aider --model deepseek --api-key deepseek = key # Claude 3.7 Sonnet aider --model sonnet --api-key anthropic = key # o3-mini aider --model o3-mini --api-key openai = key Want more details? Installation Guide Usage Guide Kind Words From Users I like aider :) — Chenwei Cui on X Aider is hands down the best. And it's free and opensource. — AriyaSavakaLurker on Reddit The best free open source AI coding assistant. — IndyDevDan on YouTube I am an aider addict. I'm getting so much more work done, but in less time. — dandandan on Discord Cannot believe aider vibe coded a 650 LOC feature across service and cli today in 1 shot. — autopoietist on Discord Hands down, this is the best AI coding assistant tool so far. — IndyDevDan on YouTube More Information Documentation Everything you need to get started and make the most of Aider Installation Guide Usage Guide Tutorial Videos Connecting to LLMs Configuration Options Troubleshooting FAQ Community & Resources Connect with other users and find additional resources LLM Leaderboards GitHub Repository Discord Community Release notes Blog Documentation GitHub Discord Blog