TITLE: April 2025: A month of innovation for Amazon Q Developer | Amazon Web Services
URL: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/april-2025-amazon-q-developer
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-01T05:04:20-07:00
LEN: 11694 chars

April 2025: A month of innovation for Amazon Q Developer | AWS DevOps & Developer Productivity Blog Select your cookie preferences We use essential cookies and similar tools that are necessary to provide our site and services. We use performance cookies to collect anonymous statistics, so we can understand how customers use our site and make improvements. Essential cookies cannot be deactivated, but you can choose “Customize” or “Decline” to decline performance cookies. If you agree, AWS and approved third parties will also use cookies to provide useful site features, remember your preferences, and display relevant content, including relevant advertising. To accept or decline all non-essential cookies, choose “Accept” or “Decline.” To make more detailed choices, choose “Customize.” Accept Decline Customize Customize cookie preferences We use cookies and similar tools (collectively, "cookies") for the following purposes. Essential Essential cookies are necessary to provide our site and services and cannot be deactivated. They are usually set in response to your actions on the site, such as setting your privacy preferences, signing in, or filling in forms. Performance Performance cookies provide anonymous statistics about how customers navigate our site so we can improve site experience and performance. Approved third parties may perform analytics on our behalf, but they cannot use the data for their own purposes. Allowed Functional Functional cookies help us provide useful site features, remember your preferences, and display relevant content. Approved third parties may set these cookies to provide certain site features. If you do not allow these cookies, then some or all of these services may not function properly. Allowed Advertising Advertising cookies may be set through our site by us or our advertising partners and help us deliver relevant marketing content. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less relevant advertising. Allowed Blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience of our sites. You may review and change your choices at any time by selecting Cookie preferences in the footer of this site. We and selected third-parties use cookies or similar technologies as specified in the AWS Cookie Notice . Cancel Save preferences Your privacy choices We and our advertising partners (“we”) may use information we collect from or about you to show you ads on other websites and online services. Under certain laws, this activity is referred to as “cross-context behavioral advertising” or “targeted advertising.” To opt out of our use of cookies or similar technologies to engage in these activities, select “Opt out of cross-context behavioral ads” and “Save preferences” below. If you clear your browser cookies or visit this site from a different device or browser, you will need to make your selection again. For more information about cookies and how we use them, read our Cookie Notice . Allow cross-context behavioral ads Opt out of cross-context behavioral ads To opt out of the use of other identifiers, such as contact information, for these activities, fill out the form here . For more information about how AWS handles your information, read the AWS Privacy Notice . Cancel Save preferences Unable to save cookie preferences We will only store essential cookies at this time, because we were unable to save your cookie preferences. If you want to change your cookie preferences, try again later using the link in the AWS console footer, or contact support if the problem persists. Dismiss Skip to Main Content Filter: All English Contact us AWS Marketplace Support My account Search Filter: All Sign in to console Create account AWS Blogs Home Blogs Editions AWS DevOps & Developer Productivity Blog April 2025: A month of innovation for Amazon Q Developer by Brian Beach on 01 MAY 2025 in Amazon Q , Amazon Q Developer Permalink Share As April 2025 comes to a close, I’m amazed by the innovations that Amazon Q Developer has launched in the past few weeks. Generative AI is evolving fast, enabling developer experiences that were just not possible a few months ago. Each new launch helps make Q Developer the most capable generative AI–powered assistant for software development. Let’s explore the announcements from April. C# and C++ customization – April 1 Amazon Q Developer expanded its customization capabilities to include C# and C++ support, enabling developers to tailor AI suggestions based on their company’s proprietary codebase. This enhancement allows for more accurate inline suggestions and contextual code understanding across C# and C++ projects, while maintaining support for existing languages like Python, Java, JavaScript, and TypeScript. You can read more in Customizing C# and C++ with Amazon Q Developer Amazon’s internal journey with Q Developer – April 2 In 2024, Amazon integrated its internal knowledge repository of millions of documents into Amazon Q Business, resulting in over 450,000 hours saved in technical query time. Using AI for software transformations integrated with internal development tools saved 4,500 developer years of effort and more than $260M. Perhaps most importantly, the technology is changing how developers approach problem-solving itself, enabling more creative and experimental development practices. You can read more in How generative AI is transforming developer workflows at Amazon . Conversation persistence, search, and export – April 3rd Amazon Q Developer now gives you more control over your conversation history. Your conversation is preserved between sessions, letting you pick up where you left off. In addition, you can search the conversation history and export the conversation as markdown. Conversation history features are now available in VS Code and will be added to other IDEs soon. Context control enhancements – April 3rd Back in March, I wrote a post about taking control of your code with Amazon Q Developer’s new context features . This allowed you to specify files and folders to add to the context. You can now include classes, functions, and global variables into the input context. In addition, the context size was increased to 100k characters in chat. These features are now available in VS Code and will be added to other IDEs soon. Expanded language support – April 9 Amazon Q Developer now supports multiple languages across its IDE and CLI interfaces, enabling developers to discuss architecture, create documentation, and build applications in your preferred language. This enhancement creates a more inclusive and accessible development environment. You can read more in Speaking Your Language: Expanded language support in Amazon Q Developer . Eclipse inline chat (preview) – April 10 The new inline chat feature in Eclipse allows developers to edit code in place using natural language commands. This powerful capability streamlines tasks like refactoring, optimization, and code maintenance without breaking development flow. You can read more in Announcing inline chat in Eclipse with Amazon Q Developer . European region launch – April 14 Amazon Q Developer Pro Tier is now available in the Frankfurt (eu-central-1) region, addressing data residency requirements for European customers while improving performance through reduced latency. The launch includes cross-region inferencing optimization across Frankfurt, Ireland, Paris and Stockholm. You can read more in Announcing the European region for Amazon Q Developer . GitLab Duo with Amazon Q (GA) – April 17 GitLab Duo with Amazon Q brings Amazon Q’s generative AI capabilities directly into GitLab’s DevSecOps platform and is now generally available. This integration enables AI-assisted development throughout your entire workflow—from idea conception to deployment—all within the familiar GitLab environment. You can read more in Announcing General Availability of GitLab Duo with Amazon Q . Updated software development agent – April 21 Amazon Q Developer updated the software development agent. This new agent achieves state-of-the-art performance on industry benchmark SWTBench Verified (49%) and sits among the top ranking models on SWEBench Verified (66%) . The agent has access to tools for planning and reasoning that use the capacity of advanced models to their fullest. You can read more in Amazon Q Developer releases state of the art agent for feature development Amazon introduces SWE-PolyBench – April 23 Amazon has introduced SWE-PolyBench, a new industry benchmark to evaluate the performance of AI coding agents across multiple programming languages and real-world coding scenarios. Unlike previous benchmarks that focused mainly on Python and bug fixes, SWE-PolyBench contains over 2,000 curated coding tasks spanning Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, and Python, covering a variety of challenges including feature requests and refactoring. You can read more in Amazon introduces SWE-PolyBench, a multilingual benchmark for AI Coding Agents Model context protocol support – April 30 The addition of model context protocol (MCP) support in the Amazon Q Developer CLI standardizes how applications provide context to Large Language Models, allowing developers to seamlessly integrate additional tools and data sources into their AI-assisted workflow. You can read more in Extend the Amazon Q Developer CLI with Model Context Protocol (MCP) for Richer Context . Expanded support in customization – April 30 Less that one month after adding support for C# and C++, the Q Developer customizations team was hard at work adding support for: Dart, Go, Kotlin, PHP, Ruby, Rust, Scala, Bash, PowerShell, CloudFormation, and Terraform. This is, of course, in addition to the existing supported languages: Python, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, Markdown, reStructuredText, and Text. Wow! Conclusion April 2025 has been a transformative month for Amazon Q Developer, with launches spanning global expansion, IDE enhancements, and deeper integrations. From bringing the service to European customers to enabling multilingual support and introducing powerful new capabilities like inline chat in Eclipse and GitLab integration, Amazon Q Developer significantly expanded how developers can leverage AI assistance in their daily workflows. These launches reflect a commitment to making AI-assisted development more accessible, powerful, and integrated into existing tools and processes. I encourage you to try these new features and share your feedback as we continue to enhance Amazon Q Developer. TAGS: Developer Tools , Development Resources AWS Developer Tools Blog AWS Frontend Web & Mobile Blog AWS Developers YouTube Amazon Q Developer AWS CDK AWS CloudFormation AWS CodePipeline AWS CodeBuild Follow AWS .NET on Twitter AWS Cloud on Twitter AWS on Reddit LinkedIn Twitch Email Updates Create an AWS account Learn What Is AWS? What Is Cloud Computing? What Is Agentic AI? Cloud Computing Concepts Hub AWS Cloud Security What's New Blogs Press Releases Resources Getting Started Training AWS Trust Center AWS Solutions Library Architecture Center Product and Technical FAQs Analyst Reports AWS Partners Developers Builder Center SDKs & Tools .NET on AWS Python on AWS Java on AWS PHP on AWS JavaScript on AWS Help Contact Us File a Support Ticket AWS re:Post Knowledge Center AWS Support Overview Get Expert Help AWS Accessibility Legal English Back to top Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. x facebook linkedin instagram twitch youtube podcasts email Privacy Site terms Cookie Preferences © 2026, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.