Welcome | Anytype Docs Anytype Docs ⌘ Ctrl k Anytype Docs English Getting Started Welcome Mission Install Basics Overview Vault Key Channels Sidebar Create Objects Editor Links Bookmarks Files & Media Organize Types Properties Views Queries Collections Templates Deletion Collaborate Collaboration Chats Discussions Publish Features Graph Dates Tabs Embeds Inline Views Advanced Filters Formulas Custom CSS Storage Location Local API Anytype Agents&#x27; Skill Data Sync & Backup Privacy & Encryption Import & Export Storage Data Erasure & Recovery Analytics & Tracking Settings Vault Settings Channel Settings Keyboard Shortcuts 🌐 Community Forum Open Any Initiative ANY Experience Gallery Nightly Ops 📚 Resources Memberships FAQ Troubleshooting Connect Powered by GitBook On this page For the complete documentation index, see llms.txt.
This page is also available as Markdown.
Copy On this page English Getting Started Welcome Anytype is a safe haven for your digital life.
We believe your thoughts, plans, and private conversations should belong to you—and only you.
Most apps store your data to view, scan, monetize, and control it.
You&#x27;re essentially asking for permission to access your own digital life.
Anytype puts you back in charge.
We’ve built a tool where you are the sole owner of your digital world.
What makes Anytype different? Local-First : Everything you create lives on your device first, not on a corporate server.
You can work completely offline, sync across your own devices, or self-host your data.
Whether you’re on a remote mountain or in a high-security office, you remain in control.
End-to-End Encryption : Your data is protected by a digital vault where it is scrambled into a secret code.
Only you, and the people you explicitly choose to share with, can access the information.
Nobody, not even the team at Anytype, can see what you’re working on.
No Lock-In : You are never a hostage to a subscription or a service provider.
You have access to your data and the Anytype software forever.
Because you aren&#x27;t dependent on any vendor, nobody can ever switch off your access to your own digital life—not even us.
Quick Overview In this short video, you will gain an overview of Anytype and how to get started.
How does Anytype work? Anytype lets you create different spaces for your work and personal life.
Because each space is kept isolated, you never have to worry about your information being shared with the wrong people.
Personal Spaces : A private sanctuary for your eyes only.
Use these to organize your diary, manage to-do lists, and store important documents.
Collaborative Spaces : Shared environments where you can work seamlessly with family, project teams, or entire communities.
Chats and discussions live directly inside your spaces, allowing you to hold private conversations right alongside your documents, tasks, and media.
What powers Anytype? Anytype is powered by AnySync , which is an open-source protocol we developed that supports high-performant collaboration over encrypted data and is offline-first.
With every architectural choice, we aim to make fundamental digital freedoms unconditional.
Here you can read more of our thoughts on cloud vs.
local first internet.
Join the Community Have questions or ideas? Join our Community Forum.
Next Mission Last updated 2 days ago Was this helpful? What makes Anytype different? Quick Overview How does Anytype work? What powers Anytype? Join the Community Was this helpful?