How to use Studio - Docs by LangChain Documentation Index Fetch the complete documentation index at: /llms.txt Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further. Skip to main content Interrupt is coming to NYC and London this fall. Join the builders, engineers, and teams shaping what's next for agents. Get your tickets → Docs by LangChain home page Test Search... ⌘ K Ask AI GitHub Try LangSmith Try LangSmith Search... Navigation How to use Studio Get started Datasets & Experiments Evaluators Annotation Queues Test from Playground Test from Studio Overview Quickstart Runs, assistants, threads Traces, datasets, prompts Troubleshooting On this page Run application Manage assistants Manage threads Next steps How to use Studio Copy page Copy page Copy page Copy page This page describes the core workflows you’ll use in Studio. It explains how to run your application, manage assistant configurations, and work with conversation threads. Each section includes steps in both graph mode (full-featured view of your graph’s execution) and chat mode (lightweight conversational interface): Run application : Execute your application or agent and observe its behavior. Manage assistants : Create, edit, and select the assistant configuration used by your application. Manage threads : View and organize the threads, including forking or editing past runs for debugging. ​ Run application Graph Chat ​ Specify input Define the input to your graph in the Input section on the left side of the page, below the graph interface. Studio will attempt to render a form for your input based on the graph’s defined state schema . To disable this, click the View Raw button, which will present you with a JSON editor. Click the up or down arrows at the top of the Input section to toggle through and use previously submitted inputs. ​ Run settings ​ Assistant To specify the assistant that is used for the run: Click the Settings button in the bottom left corner. If an assistant is currently selected the button will also list the assistant name. If no assistant is selected it will say Manage Assistants . Select the assistant to run. Click the Active toggle at the top of the modal to activate it. For more information, refer to Manage assistants . ​ Streaming Click the dropdown next to Submit and click the toggle to enable or disable streaming. ​ Breakpoints To run your graph with breakpoints: Click Interrupt . Select a node and whether to pause before or after that node has executed. Click Continue in the thread log to resume execution. For more information on breakpoints, refer to Human-in-the-loop . ​ Submit run To submit the run with the specified input and run settings: Click the Submit button. This will add a run to the existing selected thread . If no thread is currently selected, a new one will be created. To cancel the ongoing run, click the Cancel button. Specify the input to your chat application in the bottom of the conversation panel. Click the Send message button to submit the input as a Human message and have the response streamed back. To cancel the ongoing run: Click Cancel . Click the Show tool calls toggle to hide or show tool calls in the conversation. ​ Manage assistants Studio lets you view and edit your assistants, and allows you to run your graph using these assistant configurations. For more conceptual details, refer to the Assistants overview . Graph Chat To view your assistants: Click Manage Assistants in the bottom left corner. This opens a modal for you to view all the assistants for the selected graph. Specify the assistant and its version you would like to mark as Active . LangSmith will use this assistant when runs are submitted. The Default configuration option will be active, which reflects the default configuration defined in your graph. Edits made to this configuration will be used to update the run-time configuration, but will not update or create a new assistant unless you click Create new assistant . Chat mode enables you to switch through the different assistants in your graph via the dropdown selector at the top of the page. To create, edit, or delete assistants, use Graph mode. ​ Manage threads Studio provides tools to view all threads saved on the server and edit their state. You can create new threads, switch between threads, and modify past states both in graph mode and chat mode. Graph Chat ​ View threads In the top of the right-hand pane, select the dropdown menu to view existing threads. Select the desired thread, and the thread history will populate in the right-hand side of the page. To create a new thread, click + New Thread and submit a run . To view more granular information in the thread, drag the slider at the top of the page to the right. To view less information, drag the slider to the left. Additionally, collapse or expand individual turns, nodes, and keys of the state. Switch between Pretty and JSON mode for different rendering formats. ​ Edit thread history To edit the state of the thread: Select Edit node state next to the desired node. Edit the node’s output as desired and click Fork to confirm. This will create a new forked run from the checkpoint of the selected node. If you instead want to re-run the thread from a given checkpoint without editing the state, click Re-run from here . This will again create a new forked run from the selected checkpoint. This is useful for re-running with changes that are not specific to the state, such as the selected assistant. View all threads in the right-hand pane of the page. Select the desired thread and the thread history will populate in the center panel. To create a new thread, click + and submit a run. To edit a human message in the thread: Click Edit node state below the human message. Edit the message as desired and submit. This will create a new fork of the conversation history. To re-generate an AI message, click the retry icon below the AI message. ​ Next steps Refer to the following guides for more detail on tasks you can complete in Studio: Iterate on prompts Run experiments over datasets Connect these docs to Claude, VSCode, and more via MCP for real-time answers. Edit this page on GitHub or file an issue . Was this page helpful? Yes No Get started with Studio Previous Observability in Studio Next ⌘ I Docs by LangChain home page github x linkedin youtube Resources Forum Changelog LangChain Academy Contact Sales Company Home Trust Center Careers Blog github x linkedin youtube